README.md, before:

# Notes App

A simple web app for managing notes.

## Info

This is a portfolio project where I plan to impove my skills in frontend (React).

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React, TypeScript, Material UI
- **Architecture**: Feature-Sliced Design [(FSD)](https://feature-sliced.design/)
- **Tools**: ESLint, Prettier, Vite, CSS Modules

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AnGeD13/Notes_App.git
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Start development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open the app in your browser at `http://localhost:5173/`

## Project Structure (current)
- **app**: Application entry point. It contains global styles and layouts.
- **pages**: Pages or large parts of page in nested routing. It currently contains two pages:
  - **home**: page for a list of notes.
  - **note**: page with a form where you will be able to create and edit notes.
- **widgets**: Large self-contained chunks of functionality or UI. It currently contains:
    - **notes-list**: Contains UI and a mocked list of notes for rendening.
    - **note-form**: Contains UI for the title and description fields and drap&drop feature for files (.PNG, .JPG)
- **features**: Reused implementations of entire product features. 
  - **note-card**: a note card for displaying in the list of notes on the home page.
  - **note-files**:
    - **dialog**: dialog window for viewing the selected file.
    - **drap-drop**: feature of for receiving a file from user by dragging and dropping and by clicking.
- **entities**: Business entities that the project works with: note. 
  - **note**: Note entity includes the following fields: id, title, description, createdAt, updatedAt, file.
- **shared**: Reusable functionality, especially when it's detached from the specifics of the project.
  - **utils**:
    - Formatting date in _"DD.MM.YYYY, hh:mm:ss"_ format.
    - Calculating order of file size (B, KB, MB).
  - **config/texts**: contains ru.json and en.json files that are used for app text and future localization.
  - **constants**: contains params for pages.

## Features
1. One component is used for the note creation and edition page. This is achived by mode prop with **create** and **edit** values.
2. Drap and Drop file feature.
3. Custom hook "useFileUpload" is used for dialog and drag&drop features. It contains functions:
    - for working with drap and drop lifecycle;
    - of adding and deleting file;
    - of opening the dialog window.
4. Config text in json format for future localization.

## Screens

The page with the list of notes:
![notes list](/public/screens_for_readme/notes-list.png)

The page of creation note:
![page of creation note](/public/screens_for_readme/notepage-create.png)

The page of editing note:
![page of editing note](/public/screens_for_readme/notepage-edit.png)

The dialog window for viewing selected file:
![dialog window](/public/screens_for_readme/dialog-window.png)

Commit message:

add base routes and notfound page

README.md, after:

# Notes App

A simple web app for managing notes.

## Info

This is a portfolio project where I plan to impove my skills in frontend (React).

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React, TypeScript, Material UI, React Router v6 
- **Architecture**: Feature-Sliced Design [(FSD)](https://feature-sliced.design/)
- **Tools**: ESLint, Prettier, Vite, CSS Modules

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AnGeD13/Notes_App.git
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Start development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open the app in your browser at `http://localhost:5173/`

## Project Structure (current)
- **app**: Application entry point. It contains global styles and layouts.
- **pages**: Pages or large parts of page in nested routing. It currently contains two pages:
  - **home**: page for a list of notes.
  - **note**: page with a form where you will be able to create and edit notes.
  - **not-found**: page for displaying invalid urls.
- **widgets**: Large self-contained chunks of functionality or UI. It currently contains:
    - **notes-list**: Contains UI and a mocked list of notes for rendening.
    - **note-form**: Contains UI for the title and description fields and drap&drop feature for files (.PNG, .JPG)
- **features**: Reused implementations of entire product features. 
  - **note-card**: a note card for displaying in the list of notes on the home page.
  - **note-files**:
    - **dialog**: dialog window for viewing the selected file.
    - **drap-drop**: feature of for receiving a file from user by dragging and dropping and by clicking.
- **entities**: Business entities that the project works with: note. 
  - **note**: Note entity includes the following fields: id, title, description, createdAt, updatedAt, file.
- **shared**: Reusable functionality, especially when it's detached from the specifics of the project.
  - **utils**:
    - Formatting date in _"DD.MM.YYYY, hh:mm:ss"_ format.
    - Calculating order of file size (B, KB, MB).
  - **config/texts**: contains ru.json and en.json files that are used for app text and future localization.
  - **constants**: contains params for pages.

## Features
1. One component is used for the note creation and edition page. This is achived by mode prop with **create** and **edit** values.
2. Drap and Drop file feature.
3. Custom hook "useFileUpload" is used for dialog and drag&drop features. It contains functions:
    - for working with drap and drop lifecycle;
    - of adding and deleting file;
    - of opening the dialog window.
4. Config text in json format for future localization.
5. Routing is done by using React Router v6.
6. Not Found Page is for displaying invalid urls.

## Screens

The page with the list of notes:
![notes list](/public/screens_for_readme/notes-list.png)

Not found page:
![page with status 404](/public/screens_for_readme/notfound.png)

The page of creation note:
![page of creation note](/public/screens_for_readme/notepage-create.png)

The page of editing note:
![page of editing note](/public/screens_for_readme/notepage-edit.png)

The dialog window for viewing selected file:
![dialog window](/public/screens_for_readme/dialog-window.png)
